hello my name is Randi hurt I am the
contractors accountant here at fast easy
accounting we are primarily a
construction accounting firm and I want
to share with you our change order
sample that you can use with one it adds
one condition the condition is real
simple
we are not attorneys this is not
considered a legal document put together
by the attorney we do recommend that you
have your own attorney review the
document and make any changes that they
recommend and see you fit before you use
it that's my one disclaimer now I will
say that we have used a form very
similar this and our own construction
business for several years and it really
helped anything I mean anything even
something back of McDonald's bag will
help because what happens is there is a
discussion takes place between you and
your customer or your phone in your
customer can you do blank the four
important words while we're already here
or since it's already open and too often
the work gets done you don't get paid
because nothing that put on paper so
this is a real simple way to make it on
paper and what happens is this is
actually in a PDF file you can use the
Acrobat the free reader and a little but
up here it says hi highlight existing
feels you click that it'll highlight the
fields so the first thing you do is put
your company name appear Rock Creek
instruction
and it's a fake name if you anybody uses
QuickBooks will recognize it and it's
located the fake address is 1 2 3 Main
Street and blend would Washington 98 o 3
6 I chose that because our business is a
little in Horsham the original contract
at this commissary the change order date
is 1015 2012 and I recommend you you use
a naming convention in convention we use
for a long time was we put the Year
first followed by the number of the
project so in this case is 2012 this is
a 36th project we've worked done and
this is a change order so let's change
c01 and our contract refers to if you're
working for a contractor we ramp sure a
specialty contractor like a plumber
electrician a CDC landscaper painter all
kinds of specialty contractors or
yorking for a homeowner this case ranks
for homeowner and that person's name is
Bob along
Bob is located at one two three four six
Alma discrete and he's also located
oddly enough in Lynnwood Washington
I need all three six you'll note that
when I put in rock reconstruction and
filled it in here when they put in Bob
along it filled it in here now it talks
about the agreement described between
Bob and rock reconstruction and the
original agreement the contract was
dated on October the first of two zero
one two now you'll notice it also
reiterates all paint agreements and
contract can dish ins remain has
mentioned the same contract eight so I
come down here this line make a little
easier to see I'm gonna say we're gonna
add a new roof at a cost of
five thousand dollars we're going to
delete the back porch
had a savings of and we use brackets
here business we're taking money away
I'm sorry this is an accountant in me a
savings of $2,000 so what's gonna take
place we can see the net change is three
thousand dollars the original contract
some was one hundred one to three
thousand dollars net change by previous
oughta change little isn't it because
this is the first one so there's no
changes involved here the contracts some
prior to this change order was still no
changes
have there been any changes we was
taking the original some had that and
they'll give us a new Voter I knew some
in this case contract some will be
increased or decreased it's going to be
increased by 3 comma 1 2 3
the new contract sum is 1 0 3 comma 1 2
3 103 thousand now this is very
important
I've got a deep background of
construction and the way it always works
when there's a change in scope there
will be a change in time in this case a
roof I estimate my work breakdown
structure when WBS shows it's gonna take
5 days I'm gonna save two days on the
back porch therefore I'm gonna need
three additional days make sure it's
clear on that
so I'm gonna say the contract time will
be increased by three days the
substantial completion date as of the
day this change order it was gonna get
done by October 25th now I'm gonna say I
need three days more it's going to be
done by October 28th
just sort of make everybody happy and
here I recommend you put your
contractor's license number if it's
applicable to your company it is in
Washington State
so I'm gonna make up contractors license
there it would be RCC pound one two
three four and that's it from this point
you simply print the form and you fill
out the sign and date have the owners
sign date maybe they two copies one for
them one for you and you ready to rock
and roll if you have any questions or
you can be an addition service
whatsoever I put a hot link here all you
have to do is come down here to your
mouse like at one time it'll open up our
website we have a whole lot of things we
can help you with here some more free
programs and forms and what have you if
we can be a service please don't
hesitate to give us a call thank you
very much bye for now this is Randall
d'art signing off